The project is about putting together an underwater remotely operated vehicle with the purpose of aquatic data collection. This project had been chosen because of the recent death of many fishes in the school pond. The reason why this project is important is because upon its completion, we will be provided the means for the convenient monitoring of underwater data such as pH level and water temperature, which are the two areas the data collection aspect of our project will focus on. Remembering the algae blooming in 2014 and 2015, we have found out that hot environment could cause eutrophication, which will lead to algae bloom. Thus, monitoring the condition of the pond would be able to alert us when it gets too undesirable. We hope to achieve the prevention of a repeat of another incident involving the death of our school's fishes.

## Written on 23 July 2016 (see below)
This project puts together an underwater Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) with the purpose of aquatic data collection. It had been chosen because of the recent death of many fishes in the water around 
Singapore that cost millions of dollars (The Straits Times, Jan 2010, Feb 2014, Mar 2015) due to algal bloom. Existing methods of data collection to monitor water conditions uses a mobile network of sensors such 
as ships, fixed instruments and kayaks (Peng Lim and Sandric, 2012). However this might not  be able to provide timely checks for local fishermen to react upon. Our project aims to implement an ROV that allows 
frequent monitoring of water conditions to be conducted over long distances by reducing the cost and manpower incurred by existing monitoring system. This will provide an affordable system that local fisherman 
can rely upon. In this project, we use our school pond as the sample condition for our investigation.